The Federal government began awarding grants before the United States Constitution was drafted.
One of the first examples of grant making was outlined in the Articles of Confederation whereby Congress provided for land grants.
1860s. In the midst of the Civil War, President Lincoln signed the Morrill Act into law, establishing land-grant universities.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture was established, beginning formal programs of national agricultural research.
Throughout our nation's history, the Federal government has continuously provided aid to States and local governments
to help address things like westward expansion, civil disturbances, natural disasters, and the need for internal improvements.
The federal grant system that we have today began to take shape in the early 1900s.
During this period, Theodore Roosevelt's administration promoted agriculture,
education, professionalism, and science to further the development of land-grant universities and the USDA.
Throughout the 1910s grant programs were created that included features similar to today's grants such as matching and eligibility requirements.
By the end of 2010, enrollment at American colleges and universities had never been higher.
In 2009, there were 20.4 million students in degree-granting institutions.
Grants are widely available to support scientific and technical research.
Most grants of this type are offered to educational institutions or to other large private or public research facilities.
Grants have become an important form of funding for many organizations and individuals.
The money and other assistance provided by grants helps to drive the economy, encourage innovation, support communities and create jobs.